Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 48 -- Adult Medical Critical (Sleep Apnea Polysomnography Pathway)

Step 1
A 49-year-old man is referred because of loud snoring, daytime hypersomnolence, and witnessed nocturnal apneas.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 96/min
RR 20/min
BP 154/92 mm Hg
SpO2 88%
EtCO2 52 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Obtain a detailed sleep history
B. Obtain an ABG
C. Review overnight oximetry
D. Review sedative and opioid use
E. Review the CBC
F. Delay treatment until the entire diagnostic panel is completed
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Arrange attended polysomnography with positive-pressure titration
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the disease-specific plan
C. Delay all therapy until the patient becomes more unstable
D. Move the patient to an unmonitored setting after brief improvement

Step 3
After the initial recommendation is completed, the patient returns with diagnostic results.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 92/min
RR 18/min
BP 148/88 mm Hg
SpO2 89%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Review the polysomnography report
B. Determine whether the events are primarily obstructive or central
C. Repeat the daytime ABG
D. Assess mask fit and pressure tolerance
E. Review the CBC again
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan discharge or de-escalation before the reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Begin bilevel positive airway pressure and arrange close follow-up for adherence and weight management
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue therapy after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear follow-up plan
