Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 26 -- Neuromuscular Critical (Guillain-Barre Ascending Paralysis)

Step 1
A 51-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of progressive ascending weakness and increasing shortness of breath.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 114/min
RR 30/min
BP 142/86 mm Hg
SpO2 85%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Measure VC and MIP
B. Auscultate breath sounds and assess secretion burden
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Monitor for autonomic instability
E. Determine secretion-handling ability
F. Delay treatment until all nonurgent testing is complete
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Admit to the ICU, provide oxygen, and prepare for endotracheal intubation because respiratory mechanics are failing
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the syndrome-specific plan
C. Delay escalation until the next scheduled reassessment
D. Sedate first and then decide how to manage ventilation

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, weakness continues to progress.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 3 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 30/min
BP 150/90 mm Hg
SpO2 88%
EtCO2 54 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat VC and MIP
B. Repeat the ABG
C. Monitor autonomic stability
D. Determine whether airway protection and invasive ventilation are now required
E. Review the chest radiograph
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan transfer or discharge before reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Proceed with endotracheal intubation and ICU management for progressive neuromuscular ventilatory failure
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue support after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear high-acuity plan
