Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 3 -- PACU Sudden Postoperative Respiratory Collapse

Step 1
A 61-year-old man in the PACU becomes abruptly restless and then drowsy with increasing respiratory distress.

While receiving O2 by face mask, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 30/min
BP 146/84 mm Hg
SpO2 83%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Auscultate breath sounds
B. Inspect chest expansion
C. Percuss the chest
D. Apply continuous pulse oximetry and capnography
E. Review the recent procedure history
F. Delay treatment until chest CT is completed
G. Give additional opioid for agitation

Step 2
Ventilation remains poor, and obstructive thoracic physiology is suspected. Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Insert an airway adjunct if needed and begin assisted ventilation with 100% O2 while calling for immediate help
B. Observe on oxygen only
C. Transfer to a regular floor bed
D. Sedate the patient before ventilation is controlled

Step 3
After assisted ventilation begins, the patient suddenly becomes hypotensive.

While receiving bag-mask ventilation with 100% O2, the following are noted:
HR 132/min
RR 18/min assisted
BP 82/48 mm Hg
SpO2 78%
EtCO2 58 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Reassess breath sounds
B. Check tracheal position
C. Repeat chest percussion
D. Determine whether immediate pleural decompression is required
E. Delay reassessment until a radiograph is available
F. Stop close monitoring after bag-mask ventilation begins

Step 4
Hypotension and hypoxemia worsen with findings consistent with tension pneumothorax. Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Perform immediate right-sided pleural decompression and prepare definitive chest drainage
B. Obtain imaging before intervention
C. Continue bag-mask ventilation and reassess much later
D. Transfer to a low-acuity bed after brief improvement
