Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 49 -- Adult Medical Critical (Hypothermia Rewarming/Resuscitation)

Step 1
A 61-year-old man is brought to the emergency department after prolonged cold exposure.

While receiving O2 by nonrebreathing mask, the following are noted:
HR 42/min
RR 8/min
BP 84/46 mm Hg
SpO2 79%
EtCO2 56 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Measure the core temperature
B. Assess the cardiac rhythm
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Review electrolytes and the CBC
E. Assess responsiveness and airway protection
F. Delay treatment until the entire diagnostic panel is completed
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Handle gently, provide warmed humidified oxygen, begin active core rewarming, and infuse warmed IV fluids
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the disease-specific plan
C. Delay all therapy until the patient becomes more unstable
D. Move the patient to an unmonitored setting after brief improvement

Step 3
After active rewarming is started, the patient remains critically ill but is more responsive.

While receiving warmed humidified O2 by face mask, the following are noted:
HR 54/min
RR 10/min
BP 92/54 mm Hg
SpO2 88%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the core temperature
B. Repeat the ABG
C. Assess the cardiac rhythm again
D. Review perfusion and electrolyte response
E. Assess airway protection
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan discharge or de-escalation before the reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue active core rewarming and ICU-level monitoring until temperature and ventilation stabilize
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue therapy after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear follow-up plan
