Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 50 -- Adult Medical Critical (Pneumonia Consolidation Hypoxemia)

Step 1
A 73-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of fever, productive cough, and increasing shortness of breath.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 4 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 124/min
RR 34/min
BP 148/88 mm Hg
SpO2 84%
EtCO2 36 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Auscultate breath sounds
B. Inspect the sputum
C. Review the chest radiograph
D. Obtain an ABG
E. Review the CBC and lactate
F. Delay treatment until the entire diagnostic panel is completed
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Provide high-concentration oxygen, obtain cultures, begin antibiotics, and start aggressive pulmonary hygiene
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the disease-specific plan
C. Delay all therapy until the patient becomes more unstable
D. Move the patient to an unmonitored setting after brief improvement

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, oxygenation improves only slightly and dyspnea persists.

While receiving high-flow nasal oxygen at an FiO2 of 0.60, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 32/min
BP 142/84 mm Hg
SpO2 88%
EtCO2 38 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ABG
B. Review the repeat chest radiograph
C. Review culture and antibiotic data
D. Determine whether ventilatory support will be needed if fatigue worsens
E. Review the CBC and lactate trend
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan discharge or de-escalation before the reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue ICU or step-down care with high-flow support and prepare for intubation if fatigue worsens
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue therapy after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear follow-up plan
