Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 29 -- Neuromuscular Critical (Stroke Neuro-Respiratory Failure)

Step 1
A 72-year-old woman is brought to the emergency department because of sudden speech change, unilateral weakness, and decreasing responsiveness.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 4 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 112/min
RR 28/min
BP 168/96 mm Hg
SpO2 87%
EtCO2 49 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Assess gag reflex and airway protection
B. Review the head CT
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Assess neurologic severity and command following
E. Review the CBC and chemistry panel
F. Delay treatment until all nonurgent testing is complete
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Protect the airway, provide oxygen, and admit to the neuro ICU with intubation readiness
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the syndrome-specific plan
C. Delay escalation until the next scheduled reassessment
D. Sedate first and then decide how to manage ventilation

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, mental status does not improve and airway protection remains poor.

While receiving O2 by mask at an FiO2 of 0.50, the following are noted:
HR 108/min
RR 26/min
BP 164/92 mm Hg
SpO2 90%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ABG
B. Reassess gag and cough reflexes
C. Review neurologic status and ICU-level needs
D. Determine whether endotracheal intubation is now required
E. Review the repeat head CT
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan transfer or discharge before reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Proceed with endotracheal intubation and neuro-ICU care
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue support after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear high-acuity plan
