Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 25 -- Neuromuscular Critical (Myasthenia Gravis Crisis)

Step 1
A 34-year-old woman with myasthenia gravis comes to the emergency department because of increasing weakness and difficulty swallowing.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 32/min
BP 146/88 mm Hg
SpO2 84%
EtCO2 52 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Assess cough strength and bulbar function
B. Measure VC and MIP
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Assess swallowing safety
E. Review the CBC and chemistry panel
F. Delay treatment until all nonurgent testing is complete
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Prepare for endotracheal intubation and ICU care while coordinating myasthenic-crisis treatment
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the syndrome-specific plan
C. Delay escalation until the next scheduled reassessment
D. Sedate first and then decide how to manage ventilation

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, the patient remains weak and becomes more fatigued.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 3 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 116/min
RR 30/min
BP 140/84 mm Hg
SpO2 88%
EtCO2 55 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat VC and MIP
B. Repeat the ABG
C. Reassess secretion handling and aspiration risk
D. Determine whether definitive airway protection is now required
E. Review the chemistry panel
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan transfer or discharge before reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Proceed with endotracheal intubation and ICU management for myasthenic crisis
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue support after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear high-acuity plan
