Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 35 -- Cardiovascular Critical (Pulmonary Embolism Post-Op Sudden Deadspace)

Step 1
A 55-year-old woman is on postoperative day 2 after orthopedic surgery and suddenly becomes short of breath.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 4 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 132/min
RR 34/min
BP 94/58 mm Hg
SpO2 79%
EtCO2 28 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Auscultate breath sounds
B. Assess for sudden pleuritic chest pain and hemoptysis
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Review the ECG
E. Review the CBC
F. Delay treatment until CT angiography is completed
G. Transfer the patient to an unmonitored area

Step 2
Findings suggest acute pulmonary embolism with hemodynamic strain. Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Provide high-concentration oxygen, support hemodynamics, and activate the urgent PE treatment pathway with anticoagulation readiness
B. Use oxygen only and wait for imaging before beginning PE-specific treatment
C. Give a large fluid bolus only and reassess later
D. Transfer to a regular floor bed when saturation improves briefly

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, the patient remains unstable.

While receiving O2 by nonrebreathing mask, the following are noted:
HR 128/min
RR 32/min
BP 88/54 mm Hg
SpO2 84%
EtCO2 26 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Obtain bedside echocardiography results
B. Assess for deep venous thrombosis with lower-extremity ultrasound
C. Review the lactate and perfusion trend
D. Determine whether thrombolytic therapy is now indicated
E. Repeat the ABG
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response
G. Delay escalation until the next routine reassessment cycle

Step 4
Hypotension persists with evidence of right-heart strain. Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue ICU-level management and begin definitive PE rescue therapy because shock persists
B. Continue the same therapy unchanged for several hours
C. Transfer to an unmonitored bed
D. Discharge after transient oxygenation improvement
