Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 28 -- Neuromuscular Critical (Muscular Dystrophy Hypoventilation)

Step 1
A 45-year-old man with muscular dystrophy comes to the emergency department because of worsening fatigue and weak cough.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 108/min
RR 26/min
BP 138/82 mm Hg
SpO2 86%
EtCO2 54 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Measure VC and MIP
B. Obtain an ABG
C. Assess cough effectiveness
D. Review overnight hypoventilation symptoms
E. Review the chest radiograph
F. Delay treatment until all nonurgent testing is complete
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Begin noninvasive ventilation, start cough-assist therapy, and admit for monitored care
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the syndrome-specific plan
C. Delay escalation until the next scheduled reassessment
D. Sedate first and then decide how to manage ventilation

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, breathing improves only slightly and cough remains weak.

While receiving NPPV with an FiO2 of 0.35, the following are noted:
HR 104/min
RR 24/min
BP 134/80 mm Hg
SpO2 90%
EtCO2 50 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ABG
B. Evaluate secretion-clearance response
C. Repeat VC/MIP or work of breathing assessment
D. Determine whether monitored NPPV remains adequate overnight
E. Review the chest radiograph
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan transfer or discharge before reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue monitored noninvasive ventilation and airway-clearance support in high-acuity care
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue support after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear high-acuity plan
