Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 32 -- Cardiovascular Critical (Myocardial Infarction Ischemic Crisis)

Step 1
A 58-year-old man is brought to the emergency department because of chest pressure and worsening shortness of breath.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 4 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 122/min
RR 30/min
BP 164/98 mm Hg
SpO2 84%

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Obtain a 12-lead ECG
B. Auscultate breath sounds
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Review troponin and serum potassium
E. Review telemetry and blood pressure trend
F. Delay treatment until the full diagnostic panel is completed
G. Transfer to a low-acuity bed before stabilization

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Provide oxygen as indicated, begin continuous ECG monitoring, and support the emergency ischemia treatment pathway
B. Use oxygen only and wait for more data before beginning disease-specific therapy
C. Move the patient to an unmonitored area after brief improvement
D. Sedate first and reassess the patient later

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, the patient remains dyspneic and chest pain persists.

While receiving O2 by nonrebreathing mask, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 28/min
BP 148/90 mm Hg
SpO2 88%

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ECG and review the rhythm strip
B. Reassess breath sounds and work of breathing
C. Repeat the ABG
D. Review troponin trend
E. Determine whether definitive reperfusion and ICU-level monitoring are still required
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan discharge if oxygenation improves briefly

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Transfer for definitive reperfusion with continued ICU-level monitoring
B. Keep the current therapy unchanged and reassess much later
C. Transfer to an unmonitored bed
D. Discharge after transient improvement
