Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 51 -- Adult Medical Critical (AIDS Opportunistic PCP Pathway)

Step 1
A 41-year-old man with advanced immunocompromise is brought to the emergency department because of progressive dyspnea and fever.

While receiving O2 by nasal cannula at 6 L/min, the following are noted:
HR 118/min
RR 30/min
BP 136/82 mm Hg
SpO2 86%
EtCO2 40 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Auscultate breath sounds
B. Review the chest radiograph
C. Obtain an ABG
D. Review LDH and the CD4 count
E. Review the CBC
F. Delay treatment until the entire diagnostic panel is completed
G. Transfer to a low-acuity area before the evaluation is complete

Step 2
Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Provide oxygen, begin trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and corticosteroids, and admit to monitored care
B. Use oxygen alone and defer the disease-specific plan
C. Delay all therapy until the patient becomes more unstable
D. Move the patient to an unmonitored setting after brief improvement

Step 3
After initial treatment is started, severe hypoxemia persists.

While receiving high-flow nasal oxygen at an FiO2 of 0.80, the following are noted:
HR 116/min
RR 32/min
BP 132/78 mm Hg
SpO2 86%
EtCO2 38 mm Hg

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ABG
B. Review the induced sputum result
C. Review the repeat chest radiograph
D. Determine whether ICU-level support is now required
E. Review the CBC
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response to treatment
G. Plan discharge or de-escalation before the reassessment is complete

Step 4
Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue ICU-level care while PCP therapy is maintained and escalate ventilatory support as needed
B. Keep the current approach unchanged and reassess much later
C. Discontinue therapy after brief improvement
D. Transfer or discharge without a clear follow-up plan
