Exhale Academy CSE Review
Case 4 -- Nocturnal Dyspnea Fluid Overload Crisis

Step 1
A 67-year-old woman awakens suddenly because of shortness of breath and cannot lie flat.

While breathing room air, the following are noted:
HR 122/min
RR 32/min
BP 176/102 mm Hg
SpO2 82%

Which of the following should be evaluated initially? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Auscultate breath sounds
B. Inspect the sputum
C. Review the chest radiograph
D. Obtain an ABG
E. Review the BNP
F. Obtain bedside spirometry
G. Delay treatment until all studies are completed

Step 2
The findings are most consistent with acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Which of the following should be recommended FIRST?

Options
A. Position upright, provide oxygen, begin NPPV, and support diuretic and vasodilator therapy while monitoring blood pressure
B. Use low-flow nasal cannula and observe for 30 minutes
C. Give a rapid fluid bolus for tachycardia
D. Proceed directly to intubation before attempting noninvasive support

Step 3
After oxygen therapy, noninvasive ventilation, and medical treatment are started, the patient improves but remains ill.

While receiving NPPV with an FiO2 of 0.60, the following are noted:
HR 108/min
RR 26/min
BP 158/92 mm Hg
SpO2 90%

Which of the following should be evaluated now? SELECT AS MANY AS INDICATED (MAX 4).

Options
A. Repeat the ABG
B. Monitor urine output and blood pressure response
C. Reassess mental status and work of breathing
D. Review serum potassium and renal function
E. Plan discharge if oxygen saturation briefly improves
F. Stop close monitoring after the first response

Step 4
Gas exchange improves with treatment and the patient no longer appears to be failing noninvasive support. Which of the following should be recommended now?

Options
A. Continue monitored admission with NPPV weaning, oxygen titration, and ongoing diuretic therapy
B. Discharge home with outpatient follow-up later in the week
C. Transfer to an unmonitored bed immediately
D. Remove NPPV and oxygen because the ABG improved
